"Nothing is more expensive than bad information.
Know the source.
One Radio Network dot com."
Ah, well good morning once again.
This is Patrick Timpone, One Radio Network dot com.
And part two of our show, May 18, 2020.
Good to be here.
David Wolf will join us tomorrow, 9 o'clock central.
So after the show, get your questions in for David Wolf, probably one of the foremost,
what kind of health gurus in the vegetarian/vegan world, David Wolf.
He'll be here tomorrow.
A couple of great shows for you on Wednesday that I think you're going to find fascinating.
Two very unique people talking about some of the legality of the people that are pushing
this corona thing and actually some ways you may be able to protect yourself if you feel
so inclined.
And then also going back to some really old medicine and how some of the modern medicine
came into being even before the early 1900s with the Rockefeller Foundation thing.
Pretty fascinating stuff that I read in an article and invited the man on and he said,
"Yeah, and that'll happen on Wednesday."
Here's our contact info if you have a question or a comment for our next guest.
He's here on the second Monday at 10.30 central.
Ray Peat, very well respected around the world.
PhD, University of Oregon, specialization in physiology.
He started working on hormones back in '68, wrote his dissertation in '72.
He outlined the ideas on progesterone and hormones closely related to it.
His main thesis is that energy and structure are interdependent at every level.
We love that.
His website is rayPeat.com and we'll tell you how to get his newsletter.
And he's here and we love talking to him because he's been around a while and so it's always
fun to have somebody who's done a lot of research.
Dr. Peat, good morning.
Good morning.
How are things up there where you are, sir?
Oh, it's been raining for several days, but a pretty warm spring so everything is growing.
Dr. Ray Peat, do you think it's possible if we have cold weather blowing through, rain
or chill or stress that we can create a situation where we think we have caught the flu or created
a cold from a virus but it was really an internal combustion from things like weather changes
and stress?
Oh, for sure.
Change in atmospheric pressure causes all sorts of symptoms.
Usually it's increasing pressure that brings on the worst symptoms.
The rising oxygen tension actually is harmful when the pressure is increasing with cold
air.
Cold dry air is very heavy and so it increases the atmospheric pressure.
Cold weather also, when you stay inside and run a heater, that raises the dryness increases,
the relative humidity decreases when you raise the temperature.
And so if you have a cold wave of dry air coming in and then you heat your house, you
make super dry air with a high oxygen tension and that causes lung injury.
So your lungs are really susceptible to anything, bacteria or fungus or virus, but simply any
stress can make those irritated lung surfaces produce symptoms.
Normally your lungs are the main detoxifying organ for things like circulating serotonin.
If your intestine is irritated because you ate some strange food, they secrete serotonin
into the blood and it's carried to the lungs to be detoxified.
But if anything is happening in your lungs, even inflammation just from the dry air, extra
oxygen pressure, then if your lungs fail to detoxify it, then you get all of these serotonin
symptoms which can include increased coagulation in your blood.
For example, it's known that lung disease, colds, influenza, anything that messes up
your lungs increases the risk of systemic coagulation and strokes even in young people.
And some of the news stories in recent weeks have said that there is this horrible new
quality of coronavirus, young people are having strokes.
It's not at all new.
Severe cold increases the risk of a stroke.
So do I hear you saying though that we can produce symptoms, fevers, all kinds of things
with the lungs because of outside influences that are not necessarily a virus or a bacteria
that has come in from the outside and entered our being?
Right.
Just emotional stress.
And then so the body is producing these symptoms, why?
To detox or to heal?
That's the basic mechanism that when the body experiences a threat, it turns on the adrenal
system, for example, the uncellular adaptive reaction system.
And he explains that the high cortisol lets you have super adaptive properties for a while,
but then if it continues too long, that high cortisol melts down your immune system, your
thymus shrinks in a matter of hours of high cortisol.
And so even emotional stress that keeps your cortisol elevated for a while is melting away
your immune system.
A young person with a big, juicy thymus gland, if they have a severe accident and live for
maybe four or five hours, it's found that their thymus is gone.
Interesting.
So it's possible then that there could be many people, thousands, millions, whatever,
that are experiencing flu-like symptoms that they think they've caught a virus that just
because of the fear that's instilled to them through the media, have creating symptoms.
It's possible without coming in contact with any virus.
Not just possible, it's known.
Known.
Not just possible.
It's known.
Yeah.
And then if you, wow, and then if you would give a test to one of these persons either
before or after and it showed positive, does that mean anything?
Yeah, that they're immune to that supposedly.
If you have antibodies to something, it means you've adapted to it successfully.
Same with blood tests for classes of antibodies that they find that you have antibodies to
potatoes or blueberries or whatever in your blood.
They say never eat potatoes or blueberries because you have antibodies to them.
Actually it means you've adapted to them.
It's okay to eat them.
So these PCR antibody tests that they give to just regular people that they want to test
everybody and this is the meme, let's test everybody.
Are they of any value whatsoever?
Somewhat.
It will tell you that something like 80 or 90% of the people that might have the actual
virus sitting on some membrane isn't going to get sick.
It shows you that the virus is harmful, harmless for the great majority of people.
So the people testing positive, you're saying could possibly be, they have an antiviral,
they have an antibody to, but not necessarily the COVID virus because they don't even, right?
The PCR test is to find the actual virus which can be present in most people without causing
either symptoms or antibodies, but possibly the antibodies will develop.
But then the other tests are looking for antibodies and some of the tests that have been used
have not been able to discriminate between any old standard coronavirus and the new coronavirus.
Yes, sir.
Dr. Ray Peat.
But so in mid-February when this thing kind of blew up and all of a sudden they had this
test, let's test people, wasn't enough tests, but we're going to get more tests, and wasn't
enough tests and people were testing positive, how would it be possible logically or from
a virology standpoint that you could have a test that quickly that would be accurate
to testing some virus, a new virus named corona that hasn't been around until now?
To know the meaning of a test, you have to test the test and they didn't do that.
It takes a long time to know whether a test is going to tell you anything.
And so the test results, whether they're antibodies or PCR for the actual virus, you have to first
establish what it means.
And they're just like a bunch of crazy chickens talking about numbers without having tested
what the numbers mean.
And how long generally, Dr. Peat, would it take to have one of these test trials to make
it really very accurate?
And what would be very accurate?
70% accuracy?
80%?
Well, you have to test lots of healthy people and some sick people too, and then compare
the differences to see if there's more antibody or more virus in the sick people than in the
healthy people and develop the meaning of the test on the basis of actual results, conditions
in the real world.
But if you only test sick people and say a certain percentage have the virus or only
test healthy people, if you concentrate on the population in general, like the study
in Northern California, Jay Bhattacharyan and his group were showing that the number
of infected people was low and also the mortality per infection was very low.
But still, they didn't test a big enough population to be certain of how many really are infected
in that given area.
But he said he was getting emails from colleagues saying things like, "Jay, get with the program."
And program means conforming to the opinion, the authoritative opinion.
Don't investigate and stir things up.
And if you really wanted to do, according to virology, a test, in general, how long
can you theorize or the record show how long of a time frame would it take before that
test was that we have a good one here, we have something real that's valuable?
How long?
I would guess at least six months.
But meanwhile, the conditions are changing and so in principle, it's very hard to do
anything scientifically meaningful when you have a virus that changes radically in three
or four or five months.
And this virus, so you're saying there is a virus that is outside the body for some
people and there's also many that are just creating symptoms from their own viral load
or from their own microbiome.
How would you say it?
Oh yeah.
If you don't distinguish very precisely to know that it's a certain mutant coronavirus,
everyone is exposed to many different kinds of coronaviruses.
And so when you're under stress, your body might multiply and respond to some of the
coronaviruses that are around you all the time or other viruses or bacteria.
Or you might even have similar reactions without any pathogen being identifiable.
And would it be fair to say that people who are afraid and fear of catching something,
possibly dying, walking six feet apart with masks and everything, that they're under
stress?
Oh, I'm sure that happens.
There was a sociologist who wrote the book about 40 years ago looking at the death rate
according to the unemployment numbers.
And he saw that at that time, 40 years ago, the population was quite a bit smaller, but
he saw an increase of 35,000 deaths per year for each point of increased unemployment.
So a five-point increase in unemployment would be very, very big, bigger than influenza.
So what I hear you saying is there is a lot more stress other than just the fear of getting
something out there, but we have the highest unemployment of unemployed people in this
country ever in the history.
So that's a whole financial, "What am I going to do?"
stress added on to it.
You hear all sorts of media people saying, "We have to follow the science," but they
don't want to talk about the science.
Two very common phrases you hear, medical experts say that that means one thing, that
they want you to conform to conventional medical opinion.
And medical opinion is regulated by the state, the state boards of medical licensing.
If you don't conform too many times, you lose your license.
And the other favorite saying is, "Scientists believe," but the thing about science is that
it's about testing and dissent.
And so if you say the dissenting researchers have been discredited because their opinion
is not what medical experts say, then you're denying science itself.
Science has to be dissent-driven.
There's quite a few Docs on Record YouTube videos, you can find them, that have gone
on Dr. Peat and said, "Well, we're being told to check off corona as a cause of death
just because," just anybody that we come across, right?
Yeah, in a typical month, six or seven percent of all deaths are from respiratory disease
like flu or pneumonia.
And in the last report, they showed what looks like a doubling of respiratory disease associated
with the diagnosis of coronavirus, but since respiratory diseases are around six or seven
percent of total mortality, that month should have shown a big increase, not necessarily
doubling the six percent, but a definite blip on total mortality.
But the CDC in their most recent report said total mortality in the U.S. is below average.
Below average?
Yeah, I've been following the CDC's own reports, and not only is nothing happening, but there's
a slight dip in total mortality this year.
And the only way you can account for that huge spike in corona-diagnosed deaths is to
see that it's made up for by a spike downward in deaths from cancer, heart disease, sepsis,
and so on.
So if you diagnose someone that you would have put down for deaths by sepsis, heart
disease, cancer, or other common things, if you decided you're not really sure what killed
them, so let's say coronavirus killed them, then you have a perfectly normal total mortality,
but an apparent spike caused by a virus, and with all of the recognized ambiguity and absence
of meaning for the definition and the tests, what you have is an epidemic of words.
An epidemic of words.
So you say that's what we're experiencing here?
I don't see any.
Any other way?
Yeah.
And it's on record that doctors who say that someone has coronavirus, I believe they receive
9,000 from Medicare, and then if you put them on a ventilator, I think, what is it, 30,000?
35,000?
No, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, the old payment for being admitted with lung
infection was around 13,000, but if it's diagnosed as COVID, that gets a 20% boost, so up to
about 16,000 for diagnosing a COVID lung disease, but if you put them on a ventilator with ordinary
lung disease, that goes up to around 40,000, and a 20% boost takes that up to 48,000.
So they're making basically $48,000 for putting someone on a ventilator until they die.
$48,000 received from the hospitals when they put somebody on a ventilator?
Received from both Medicare and the extra bonus from the CARES Act, the Free Money Act.
Oh, good.
Dr. Ray Petersworth is fascinating.
What do you know about the dangers of this ventilator?
We've read quite a few reports.
Have you seen some credible information that you can share?
Yeah, Luciano Garinoni, an Italian lung specialist working in Germany, has been advocating a
more physiological, less dogmatic approach to treating all kinds of pneumonia-like or
influenza-like lung infections, and he says in one hospital in Germany, and he didn't
want to name either of the hospitals, but one good hospital was having a 60% mortality
in their intensive care, and a nearby hospital that was abandoning the standard protocol
of intubation had a 0% mortality following his more reasonable and physiological, non-invasive
way of ventilating them.
Wow.
Interesting.
And if you look at the average figures for mortality, some of the studies show an 88%
at 60% wasn't an outstandingly bad hospital.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
If you care to join the show, 888-663-6386.
Email patrick@oneradionetwork.com.
It is May 18th.
So before we start emails and have our first break, let's talk about vaccine.
We're hearing that President Trump is touting that there could be some kind of vaccine by
the fall.
You know, just 100 million some kind of devices have been ordered through the military, and
I think they want to do some kind of an oral.
Do you think it's possible, knowing everything that you have told us about this virus, this
alleged virus, I guess is a good term, that there could be some kind of outward substance
called a vaccine that could protect people from something that would be safe?
I mean, I don't even know how to phrase the question, Dr. Peat.
Yeah.
There's no way to simply state the scientific issue because there has been no actual science
involved in it for so long.
The media are denying simple, on-the-record published facts going back 30, 40 or more
years attempting to make flu vaccines, and they claim, the current CDC claim for effectiveness
of a flu, last year's flu vaccine was 45% effective.
But if you look at the results they're talking about, it's very weird ways of arguing.
They don't simply look at a vaccinated population and an unvaccinated population because there
have been about a dozen studies that have considered the whole health of vaccinated
population versus an unvaccinated population, and those have found the people who were vaccinated
the next season developed several times as many lung infections from coronaviruses as
the unvaccinated, and that has caused sort of a panic in various authoritative sources
and fact-checkers and so on.
But you can look up those studies that the people getting flu vaccines the following
year had, one study I saw was 4.4 times as many lung diseases caused by coronaviruses
and a couple other viruses.
So you're making the argument that a potential for coronavaccine soon to come could be unnecessary
and just ill-advised.
Dangerous.
Dangerous, yeah.
And would it be dangerous because of the adjuvants, maybe the mercury or aluminum and other things
in there, or the actual substance that they'd be squirting into people, some kind of a virus,
small virus?
Yeah, and if you look at the whole population, the availability of flu vaccines has gone
from around 10 million doses per year, two years ago had a historic high of around 70
million vaccines.
70, wow.
And then last year, again, a huge surge of I think it was 169 million people vaccinated
in the US, and you'd think if it was 45% effective that this year and last year you would have
had a very healthy population.
But no, the curve of influenza, lung disease, pneumonia deaths has been pretty steady over
the last 10, 15 years.
If anything, a rising curve, somewhat following the number of vaccines.
So the whole population absolutely doesn't show it, a 45% benefit of being vaccinated.
So there's scientific proof to show that these flu vaccines are unnecessary and ineffective,
but also in many cases are causing more problems the following year.
From different viruses, yeah.
From different viruses, and where are these viruses coming from?
In the body?
Yeah, in the body and environment.
There are just millions of viruses around.
They're just everywhere.
Yeah, and you can look at the published papers in Nature and Science and the Standard Virus
Journals going back.
They actually start with germ warfare research, and no one wants to talk about that.
For a while they were saying that the Chinese had a leak of germ warfare viruses, but then
that was knocked down.
They don't want to talk about it at all.
The Fort Detrick and several other labs in the US were created solely for the purpose
of germ warfare in the 1940s.
Many of our leading medical people were working in germ and chemical warfare.
The author of the world's most used medical textbook of physiology, Arthur C. Guyton,
was a specialist in aerosolizing germs, bacteria, and viruses.
Some of those are known to have been tested on American populations.
One of the viruses he was aerosolizing was polio, and he became paralyzed by careless
lab work and so went to Mississippi and became a medical professor and made up out of his
head this awful book that became the standard most used medical textbook in the world because
of his origin and authority coming from the Government Association.
And Nixon in 1969, in response to world pressure, ordered the abolition of the germ warfare
program and the destruction of all supplies.
And what happened was suddenly the viruses were being made more potent, more virulent
as weapons.
Suddenly they discovered that there might be someone violating the international rules
and making these weapons, and so they kept producing them.
They were ordered to stop making weapons, so they said, "Now these weaponizable viruses
have to be made so we can make a vaccine against them."
That started right in 1969 when Nixon canceled the war program.
And ever since then, they have been designing more and more virulent viruses, and the coronavirus
was pretty much their favorite.
They created anthrax and Ebola, a lot of other potential weapons, but always with the excuse
that we're designing defensive vaccines against these potential weapons.
But continuing exactly the gain-of-function type of research, making chimera mixes of
different types of virus to escape known immune defenses.
But in all of these 40 years of explicitly designing horrible disease-causing viruses
so they could make vaccines, they have never succeeded in making a vaccine that worked
against them.
Never succeeded in making a vaccine that worked against them.
So why would we expect to have one suddenly, historically unique event by next fall?
Next fall.
Why, indeed.
Dr. Ray Peat, Ph.D., what do you think?
Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
Quick break, then we're going to get to all of your emails, and we always have lots of
them and we do the best we can.
Here's a great product, previously with our friend Brandon Amelani of Shen Blossom.
A good example of this also is the Hoshu Wu formula.
That is a new one that came out.
It's really good because it's a blood builder.
A lot of people don't understand that Hoshu Wu is actually toxic if it's not prepared
correctly.
So I wanted to come out with one that not only features the Hoshu Wu as the king herb
in the formula, but it's prepared at a minimum of 14 days.
Usually we try and get 20, 21 days of cooking it.
So you can think of it as like it's in a slow cooker with black beans.
It's basically just cooking down and deactivating some of those liver toxic compounds.
So we do use that as the bulk of the formula, but we basically put a lot of mature ginseng
root in our root extract.
We have the fermented and hydrolyzed pearl powder, reishi stem, and it's got shu di
hong, which is like a ramania type family.
We have both the prepared warm stuff and then the cool stuff to kind of balance it out in
a sense so it doesn't become sticky.
If you get a good quality Hoshu Wu that's properly prepared, it definitely has some
invigorating qualities to it and makes you feel relaxed, but yet fully vigorous and energized.
Now that's the kind of Hoshu Wu that you would like, right?
Really nice products as you can hear.
If you'd like to order Hoshu Wu or the other products, click on Shen Blossom right there
on the front page, oneradionetwork.com.
Years ago I recall David Wolf suggesting that all foods, superfoods actually just gives
our body inflammation.
This came out last time we talked with Daniel Vitalis about colostrum.
I imagine people being born with an unformatted immune system and colostrum helps to format
that, helps your body recognize viral and bacterial invaders early, and it also helps
to restore and heal the lining of the gut that's damaged in so many people and one of
the sources of inflammation and low immunity.
So it restores that gut lining at the same time that it educates the immune system on
how to better fight off pathogens that get into our bodies.
And it's pretty cool too, I think, because moms can put it in the smoothies quite easily
for the kids and it's yummy and they get some good stuff.
Yeah, it's really great to blend into smoothies.
You can make chocolates with it.
You can put it into anything that you're cooking.
And so it's easy to get into your kids and into other family members.
It tastes great and it's actually very versatile in the kitchen so you can use it in place
of a lot of other products.
Yes, and it's very tasty and fun and easy to use.
Sometimes just late at night you can take warm water with colostrum in there before
bed and it's a great product, a lot of benefits.
Click on any Survival link, colostrum, juanradionetwork.com.
Quite a few things on Survival on sale right now.
Just to kind of get you a quick little update here, if you use promo code ROBUS15, they
have Tabu, the CBD, and Schizandra Berry, ROBUS15 on sale.
And then also, let's see, Elk Velvet Antler, and that's on sale as well.
And the ROBUS15, oh, that's an additional thing.
So don't forget the D3K2.
It's a great product if you like to take a little vitamin D3, 29 bucks for a nine-month
supply.
On any Survival link, juanradionetwork.com.
We're with Dr. Ray Peat.
He's a PhD and he's been around for a long time doing this kind of research.
And so thanks for coming on once a month, Dr. Peat.
Got a lot of fans, got a lot of fans around the world that listen to the show.
So before we move on to some questions, so let's talk about just vaccines.
So this whole germ theory of Pasteur, did it start the vaccine idea?
It somewhat advanced the idea, but I think the real motor for it was Paul Ehrlich and
his specific drugs that were designed, silver bullets, the concept of a silver bullet chemical.
It blended in with the idea of antibodies that were the body's silver bullets.
And that created right from Ehrlich's time, the drug companies naturally were pushing
their silver bullet chemicals.
But that ideologically blended in with the idea that antibodies were silver bullets.
And so the study of the immune system focused all during the last century on the idea that
antibodies were the secret to immunity.
There were I guess about four Nobel Prizes between 1960 and 2000 given for good work
on the protein structure of antibodies, but it was misleading because the immune system
was being misunderstood because of the emphasis on that particular protein where really there
are a thousand other more important things than antibodies.
And the antibody specificity can go either way.
It can make a problem worse by intensifying inflammation as well as take down a potential
toxin.
And who was Paul Ehrlich?
Paul Ehrlich, he shared the Nobel Prize of, I think it was 1908, with Metchnikoff, who
was an embryologist who emphasized the cell phagocyte part of the immune system rather
than the chemical specific silver bullet part.
And the embryology based picture of the immune system was ridiculed by the chemical cartels
all through the 20th century.
And two people started, mostly two people started, proposing a radical alternative for
interpreting the immune system that went back to Metchnikoff's recognition that cells and
embryological development, the very structure of our being, were part of the immune system.
Our whole being is involved in immunity and resistance all the way from energy, the oxidative
energy of each cell leading to changes in function at all levels.
You can't say there's any one thing that is our immune system.
So the idea of the immune system has been changing in a kind of underground way.
Polly Matsinger works at the NIH now and she has been changing some of the terms that are
now in the mainstream as danger recognition.
An English doctor, Jamie Cunliffe, calls it damage recognition system rather than danger.
Polly Matsinger is a little closer to the Ehrlich antibody silver bullet by saying that
we have a system to recognize danger.
But I think Cunliffe is closer to the Metchnikoff interpretation that our whole being is involved
and when we sense damage to our intrinsic nature, that's what we're reacting to and
what they called the immune system, he calls it the disorder repair system, something like
that.
So, I hear, so is the entire vaccine phenomena, I went back all the way to polio and all that,
based on antibodies and it's still today, even measles, mumps, all these things, based
on the antibody idea which is just a very small part of the immune system.
Dr. Ray Peat, wow, what's a mother to do?
Can you imagine moms, what they're being told?
Yeah, the official story isn't even believed by the insiders.
In December, the chief scientist of the World Health Organization was on international television
telling the public that vaccines have been studied scientifically and they are perfectly
safe and then just five days later, someone leaked a video from the global summit meeting
on vaccine safety and in that meeting, she was saying that the public is less and less
trusting of what we say because of our obfuscation when they ask about the deaths caused by vaccines.
So one of the main concerns was that doctors were stopping their belief in vaccines and
they weren't vaccinating their children, their own family and she said that's a real menace
if our frontline becomes skeptical.
So people like Dale Bigtree and Robert Kennedy Jr. conjecture that there's never been a real,
authentic, viable test proving that vaccines are safe and effective.
Is that true?
Oh, absolutely true.
The Congress ordered NIH or Health and Human Services to report back to Congress every
two years at least on studies of safety because Congress had given absolute immunity to the
drug companies to produce vaccines without being sued for the damages and since there
was no financial motive to make them do safety studies, they ordered HHS to do the studies
and report every two years and the Bigtree-Kennedy lawsuit when they wouldn't deliver under freedom
of information, they wouldn't deliver the documents.
Finally when they were sued, they said no such documents can be found.
They simply ignored Congress for 30 years refusing to do studies because they knew that
it was impossible to prove the safety of the tests.
All of the data showed that certain vaccines are less harmful than others but some of them
are just terribly dangerous.
They know that they see the figures and there's a government agency that under pressure will
acknowledge maybe about 1% of the actual injured patients will get compensation from the government
for the deaths and paralysis but the definition that makes it possible to get compensation
is that the death or paralysis or whatever has to be recognized and diagnosed within
a time limit, 5 days, 15 days.
So if you die on the 16th day, you can't be compensated.
Despite all of that, they have paid out $4 billion to injured patients but it would be
maybe 100 times greater if they didn't have those time limits.
The government lists the injuries that they are bound to compensate for and that list
of injuries that they are compensating with fairly paltry amounts of money coincides with
the package insert label, the list of side effects published by the pharmaceutical companies
matches the conditions that the government is paying for.
So if the doctor [inaudible] for the vaccine, if the patient knew that death and paralysis
and brain damage and dementia, etc. were known recognized side effects, how many people would
let their kids be vaccinated?
Fascinating.
So there is, I wonder, wasn't that in 1986?
Was that the immunity law during Reagan or '86?
That was when the immunity was given to the drug industry.
So I wonder why there's even that many billions given out kind of under the table.
Well it's some little recognition of justice but meanwhile they're doing their best to
not let people know that there is that system even.
Most doctors haven't heard of that system of compensations.
Most doctors don't read the package inserts and so they keep giving vaccines.
Dr. Ray Peat, PhD, Patrick Timpone, it's oneradionetwork.com.
You can check out his website, rayPeat.com and we always have a link and it'll take you
right to Dr. Peat and you can get his newsletter, it comes out every couple of months.
So well it's been really interesting talking about this.
Let's dig in, if you will, sir, to a few of the emails in the time we have remaining.
We always have so many for you.
This is from Thomas.
He says, "I finally took the dive and managed to get my hands on some desiccated thyroid
out of Thailand.
I do feel better after a couple of months of slowly upping the dose.
I'm just wondering what Mr. Peat thinks about the best way to dose throughout the day.
I always take it first thing in the morning and then a second time around noon or a few
hours later.
Is taking it twice better than just doing it once a day or on an empty stomach?
Any ideas?
I would appreciate it."
With desiccated thyroid, it really doesn't make very much difference because it has no
hormone action until it's been digested.
So if you eat it with food, it's going to slowly release the hormone all during the
passage of that food through your small intestine.
Ideally, twice a day theoretically could be better, but in practice, once a day is fine
with desiccated thyroid.
So is that still folks are going to do some of the piggy thyroid?
That's still the best to get a desiccated thyroid where you have the T3, T4 and all
that right in there?
I think so.
It has a lot of other things that are plausible benefits.
For example, the American brands, when the armor companies sold their product name, the
new companies started removing components such as thyrocalcitonin to sell separately
and that was always part of the traditional thyroid.
And so the stuff from Thailand is more likely to be the full natural material coming out
of the animal and so it could be more beneficial than a selected purified material.
But even the synthetics that imitate that balance of T4 and T3, those are almost always
completely therapeutic.
Is there a way to use either one of the Thailand or the synthetic to work with your thyroid
to get it happy again so you can get off of them?
The traditional method that developed over several decades of practical use was to start
with about 30 milligrams for a month watching for its effect and Broda Barnes found that
the temperature when you wake up is a good way to watch the daily progression of a given
dose and then after maybe six or eight weeks, if the symptoms weren't gone, he would double
the dose and over a period of five or six months, usually he would settle in for most
people around 120 milligrams or two grains.
But once you're on there, are you there forever?
No, in fact, I tested on myself after reading experiments on rats and I found that my requirement
in winter months was about two grains a day, but in the spring, I became slightly hyperthyroid
on that dose and found that my summer dose was around half a grain.
Half a grain is 30 milligrams, right?
So when you say symptoms, were you going by your temperature or you could just feel, is
a general observation, you get a little just antsy with too much?
Yeah, I went mostly by my pulse rate, but if I didn't drop the dose in the spring, I
would start getting out of breath just getting up to answer the telephone, which is a sign
of hyperthyroidism.
Oh, hyper, yeah, that'd be a sign of hyper.
Here is Thea, she wants to know, "How can I get the most benefit of using progesterone
properly if using Progest-E daily, rubbing on gums, is it still beneficial to skip maybe
seven to 14 days a month or is that only if ingesting it?"
Oh, and would it be the same for a male, she is also asking.
The liver, the reason a woman cycles two weeks on and two weeks off is partly that the liver
is designed so that it maintains homeostasis, meaning that when something rises above average,
it increases its excretory enzymes, makes it leave the body in the bile and urine.
And so when you have this big surge after ovulation of progesterone, it's extremely
effective the first week and then this liver increases its enzymes, its effectiveness drops
off gradually and if you get pregnant, then the signals keep increasing so your progesterone
production rises steadily until the last week of pregnancy and the liver never gets ahead
to lower this huge production of progesterone, always keeps your serum level ahead of your
liver.
But if you're not pregnant and keep taking without the interruption, then your liver
starts becoming so efficient that after two or three months, you can hardly feel the effect
of the same dose of progesterone.
So just to keep for economy so that you're sensitive to moderate doses, it's good to
lay off for a week or two every month.
Here's an email from Dustin.
He's in Nashville, Tennessee this morning.
He says, "Beyond regular proper dosages of thyroid, progesterone, pregnenolone and obviously
a good PUFA-free diet, what would Dr. Peat recommend as the best regimen for retaining the elasticity
and the healing of scars, especially those past 50 and looking my best?"
One of the factors that creates stiffness and specific loss of structural elasticity
combined with stiffness, so basically it's a brittleizing effect of stress.
The system that drives that is mainly, it involves estrogen and cortisol, but the central
factor is the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system.
Estrogen is the opposing hormone to progesterone.
The natural level of progesterone is one of the things that keeps your tissue firm, proper
bulk and elastic.
So simply the absence of progesterone or excessive estrogen will turn on this angiotensin-aldosterone
system and tend to weaken tissue so that you are more susceptible to aneurysms, bulging
arteries, varicose veins, general weakening of tissues become easier to break from a scuff.
You can get more serious injury from light percussion and such.
The strengthening part is partly opposing those, keeping them down, and the things that
most strongly keep down your aldosterone system are vitamin D, zinc, all of the growth protein
anabolic things such as vitamin A, balance of calcium and phosphate.
Calcium works with vitamin D to hold down your aldosterone, which is the major brittleizing
hormone.
Brittleizing hormone.
So, are there any foods that keep the progesterone level nice and the aldosterone down dietary
wise?
Eggs and zinc and milk.
For example, stretch marks.
I had a young cousin who was about six months pregnant and she showed me her belly had these
like purple lightning streak patterns, half an inch wide and brilliant color with a zigzag
shiny pattern and it was just the most vivid stretch marks I'd ever seen and I suggested
eggs, milk, and oysters, which she ate for two or three days.
I think it was just about three days later she came back and showed me her belly, no
marks at all.
Isn't that interesting?
It was just amazing how her belly was meanwhile getting bigger but the stretch marks had absolutely
disappeared.
Fascinating.
Isn't oysters also been touted to help men keep testosterone levels up?
Oysters?
Oh, sure.
That's part of keeping cortisol and aldosterone down.
I see.
It tamps them down so the T levels can stay good.
Here is Matthew.
My question for Dr. Peat, can aspirin be taken together with Losartan?
I'm currently on 50 milligrams of Losartan.
I want to know how much aspirin I can take.
There have been a lot of publications on that warning against the aspirin but I think the
conclusion is, yeah, they're perfectly compatible.
Why would we want to take aspirin?
Is it okay?
For example, for the coronavirus, those happen to be both confirmed effective protections
against the symptoms of the corona infection.
Good old aspirin.
Can you actually get just pure aspirin these days or they all have extra curricular activities
in them?
No, the cheap kind is generally the best.
It's called Aspirin USP and it doesn't matter whether it's sold by a veterinary supply store.
It's about $15 per pound.
A pound.
Can Dr. Peat elaborate on the mechanism of action of adaptogenic herbs or are they estrogenic?
Is it safe to use example ginseng or Korean ginseng?
Yeah, a lot of studies found that there are steroids analogous to but not exactly the
same as testosterone and pregnenolone, the stabilizing steroids that protect against
cortisol.
But I think it's safer to use pregnenolone if you can find a safe and pure form.
Pregnenolone.
Oh, more emails here.
Got lots of them.
Patrick Timpani along with Dr. Ray Peat.
Sorry, my little mouse is not cooperating.
Oh, here you go.
What does it mean from Stefan, what does it mean when a woman bleeds during ovulation?
Is it a progesterone issue?
To some extent, yeah.
The surge of estrogen, its effect is to break down the lining of the uterus and that's
opposed by progesterone.
So usually the people who have what they call breakthrough bleeding, it can come anytime
for example after a woman gets pregnant.
If she was having those ovulation bleeds, she's likely to have a monthly loss of blood
even into the fifth month of pregnancy.
And that goes with all of the signs of progesterone deficiency, increased risk of preeclampsia
or premature birth or all kinds of complications of pregnancy resulting from the bad balance
of progesterone and estrogen.
One of your specialties, right?
Yeah.
I've been studying that a long time.
Julie wants to know what you think, Doc, about intermittent fasting and a ketogenic diet
for reversing type 2 diabetes.
I think the so-called ketogenic diet is always stressful.
Diabetes itself tends to turn on the stress ketogenic factors.
The body senses a lack of glucose in diabetes and that turns on stress metabolism and lactic
acid tends to rise showing that glucose is actually being used although the body feels
that it is deficient in glucose so it starts turning muscles to glucose and that happens
in the ketogenic diet.
The cortisol increases when glucose is low and the cortisol converts muscle to glucose
at the same time that you're drawing fats out of storage or eating fats.
So the fact that your diet is ketogenic means that your cortisol is bound to be having too
much influence and that is one of the things that shrinks your thymus and other parts of
your so-called immune system.
Would you please ask Dr. Peat to talk more about pregnenolone.
Can it be used to reduce estrogen dominance in the body?
Is there any change that pregnenolone would be converted to estrogen instead of progesterone
and testosterone?
The quantity of a hormone that is powerfully active in rat experiments and in experiments
I did on myself with the rats, they gave I think it was 10 grams of pregnenolone in a
single dose, enough to stretch its stomach so it couldn't eat anything for hours, but
they didn't see any hormonal effects in most of the rats.
But if the rat was stressed and having high glucocorticoid before the pregnenolone, they
were normalized.
So the only change was beneficial stopping of the stress reaction.
I found that 4,000 milligrams a day didn't have any harmful effect, simply felt about
the same as 100 milligrams a day.
Because in the rats, it's effect when you have a slight excess of pregnenolone is to
lower your cortisol to normal.
An elevated cortisol is one of the things that increases estrogen.
And so when you're blocking the stress reaction with an abundance of pregnenolone, you're
turning off the need for these other stress hormones and where a human body will make
on the order of 30 to 50 milligrams a day of pregnenolone and progesterone and five
milligrams of testosterone and probably around 50 milligrams of DHEA.
The daily dose produced in the body of estrogen is on the order of a small fraction of a microgram.
One microgram per day is an effective estrogenic dose.
So the quantity of these precursor hormones, if they're adequate, they tend to turn off
these microscopic downstream hormones.
So you will never have an increased conversion to estrogen or cortisol from an excess of
pregnenolone or progesterone.
Okay.
Dr. Ray P., Patrick Timpone, OneRadioNetwork.com.
So much has talked about oxidation and this cool thing with this new technology that we're
working on.
And we have a 20% deal on this machine too, if you're interested.
Previously with the highly credentialed Dr. Thomas Levy, he argues because the literature
shows that oxidation is the cause of disease.
But the whole point is the location, the concentration, the duration, the distribution of oxidized
biomolecules determines 100% of all diseases.
And so that's why I say oxidative stress doesn't cause disease.
Oxidation is disease.
If there's no oxidized biomolecules, you don't have a toxin.
The toxic effect is oxidation of biomolecules.
That's the entirety of it.
And by the grace of God, several months ago, George Wiseman said this about hydrogen.
Hydrogen is the world's best antioxidant by a long shot.
First of all, it's 700 times smaller than something like CoQ10, 400 times smaller than
vitamin C, things like that.
So it can literally go, the hydrogen molecule can literally go through everything in your
body and go right into the very DNA and repair it.
So now it makes sense why George was able to say this back in August 2019 with such
conviction.
The body accepts that gas and uses it to heal everything.
It's like the fountain of youth.
It's astonishing the amount of ailments.
In fact, in scientific studies, and they have over a thousand scientific studies now, they
are showing that it either helps the body heal directly or indirectly from virtually
every ailment that ails any water-based life form.
Okay, I'm sold.
And I was able to get one a couple of months ago, thanks to your support.
It's called the Aquacure Hydrogen Machine.
Breathe the gas and bubble the water.
There's a promo code 1Radio for 10% discount.
Let's just stop right there and tell you it's 20%.
George sprung that on us last week.
A 20% deal for another seven days or so, and that's it.
So if you've been thinking about getting one, it's a lifetime warranty, so it'll be a lifetime
investment.
One year, no questions asked.
30-back warranty and very interesting technology.
This machine produces Brown's gas as well as molecular hydrogen.
You can go to the molecularhydrogeninstitute.com or is it .org?
One of those, you'll see it.
Google it up and look on studies, and you'll see hundreds and hundreds of studies, peer-reviewed
studies on the benefits of Brown's gas and hydrogen, and it all involves oxidation.
Almost every one of these studies, they talk about oxidation.
So there's something real here.
You can use this for your lifetime, and who knows what kind of good things can go on.
20% promo code 1Radio for the next week.
Promo code 1Radio, 20% discount.
Go to 1Radio.com.
We're honored to have Dr. Ray Peat, PhD, on our show, and he's here the second or third,
it'll be the third Monday of each month at 1030 Central Time.
This one here, I wanted to see if I can, this is Lindsay.
I'm sorry, did I lose Lindsay?
She had a thing about, she's going to have babies in, oh, here she is.
She's going to have babies in two years or so.
Wants to know how she can balance things out with her progesterone and regulate progesterone
hormone for better health and prepare for a child in a couple of years.
She is also, oh, another one, bleeding during ovulation.
The thyroid is most often the problem hormone in causing pregnancy problems.
So you want to check your temperature and pulse rate and maybe have a blood test to
make sure that your TSH level isn't elevated.
The TSH itself is really a sign of some problems, so the higher it is, the less likely you are
to have a successful pregnancy.
There have been several publications that are showing a direct link between increased
TSH even within the so-called normal range and pregnancy problems.
Part of keeping that normal is to have adequate protein every day, not too much phosphate,
meat and beans and nuts happen to be extremely high in phosphate relative to calcium.
The high phosphate turns on your parathyroid hormone and the aldosterone, so it's bad for
all of your tissues and increases cancer risk and so on.
Calcium should be high relative to the phosphate.
Vitamin D and calcium work together.
Adequate vitamin A works with the thyroid hormone to have an anabolic effect on your
protein tissues, the thymus gland among others, keeping your muscles well-developed as part
of keeping your endocrine system in balance.
So one enough protein, but the meat, beans and what else?
Meat, beans and fish have high phosphate, which is a little counterintuitive there.
The phosphate, it just happens that those are very low in calcium content.
The foods that are highest have the best ratio of calcium to phosphate are cheese, milk and
for an extreme high calcium ratio, well-cooked greens are the richest in calcium and magnesium
relative to phosphate.
So when the phosphate gets too high with the beans, fish and meat, that's a problem for
almost everybody, right, if you have too much of those?
Yeah, Americans in general, but when you look at the figures, the higher the phosphate is,
when it gets to be five, six or seven times as high as the calcium, that leads to long-term
problems like osteoporosis and inflammatory diseases.
On the TSH, you had mentioned the normal levels, we can't go by those, but so what would be
a good TSH level after all these years of talking about thyroid that would say, "Well,
everything's pretty good there with the thyroid."
What level would that be?
When people have done large-scale surveys and looked at the incidence of thyroid cancer
over the years, they have found that if your TSH is below 0.4, there's no thyroid cancer.
0.4, well, that's a low one, man.
That's really way down there.
So would you keep taking, if you wanted to test, just to be real geeky about it, Dr.
Peat, would you keep testing if you're taking some kind of a piggy thyroid desiccated to
get down that low?
I think it would be worthwhile.
I go entirely by my pulse and temperature.
Your pulse, yeah.
But when I see people's results, if their TSH is as high as even 1.0, they always have
some hormone-related problem.
And 2 is where everyone I see with 2.0, even they have fairly significant hormone problems
by the time they're in their 30s.
My goodness.
Stefan wants to know, "Would there be any benefits to introducing sourdough starter
to the dough from making flour tortillas?"
Oh, yeah.
I don't know how a sourdough flour tortilla would turn out.
You lose gluten with the starter.
And so I think it might be hard to make something resembling a tortilla.
But anyway, flour tortillas are essentially unleavened wheat and studies have shown, for
example, in Egypt, they've seen dwarfism associated with people eating a lot of unleavened
wheat bread.
I got some of that next to my, you know, the one you talked about from that company, the
grits, right, the corn grits.
Is there any protein in corn?
A little, yeah.
Not too much?
Not very much.
But is it pretty good food in general?
Yeah, as long as they get some protein and other nutrients.
You can't live on tortillas and beans healthfully, but people who eat mixed-molized tortillas
as a regular part of their diet usually are very healthy if they have mixed other foods
with it, partly because of the high calcium content.
High calcium, so they are milk, cheese, greens.
How about eggs?
Not very good.
They're somewhat excessive for phosphate, but of course, the protein and seafood, you're
getting the trace minerals.
So it's good to have seafood once a week and eggs every day.
The mixed-molized corn is another source of calcium in the diet.
So this is Nessa, and I'll try to see if I can get through this.
It's kind of long, and let's see if I can edit down a little bit, if you can keep your
emails as short as possible.
She had TSH 9.7, put her on Armour 30 mg after seven weeks, went down 1.93, had a doc change
her to Lavoxer Thyroxine, level, however you say that, 5 mg.
Been reading the Rhoda Barnes book, and she asked her doc to change her back to Armour
instead of the 30 and to 60.
She suggested I would be able to convert the T4 to T3 as needed, and would you agree with
this?
I do have MS, and it seems the Armour was helping me with morning muscle spasms that
I was experiencing.
What was her TSH when she...
1.93 after being on the Armour 30 mg for seven weeks.
I think it should still be lower, but that's a tremendous improvement.
I would guess that having a chronic TSH as high as 9.0 would be a major factor in what
was diagnosed as MS.
Sure.
Wow.
One of the things that you almost always see with a good thyroid correction is the muscle
cramps.
The first few days while you're adjusting, you need to make sure your diet is very high
in calcium and magnesium.
So a lot of milk while you're adapting to increasing thyroid dose will prevent muscle
cramps, but basically thyroid is one of the nerve muscle protecting hormones, absolutely
essential.
Beth wants to know from Dr. Ray Peat, do you think the 5G or glyphosates have anything
to do with this whole coronavirus thing?
Oh, sure.
Each of them is known to be biologically harmful and our whole system is part of our resistance
and immunity.
And so if you do anything crazy like sit in an electromagnetic field of any measurable
intensity, even running an electric sewing machine for 20 years, they found a tremendous
increase in dementia associated with just that moderate field.
But the fields from these communication devices can be many times more intense.
Very challenging.
So anything with the motor, really, we get some magnetic fields, don't we?
Anything with the motor, yeah.
Dr. Peat, do you know, this is great, how much thyroid medication one can get out of
one slaughtered pig?
Oh, the gland is about as big as a human gland in proportion, maybe an ounce or so.
And measuring in grains or grams, the standard pill was based on the fresh gland because
for the first 10 or 20 years, they prescribed the uncooked gland.
They would give usually four grains or 250 milligrams roughly as a replacement dose.
And so when they started making dehydrated tablets, they added usually lactose to extend
the powdered gland, which they called 3X as a pure powder.
And then they would dilute it, increasing the weight threefold so that 1X was the potency
of the finished pill, which was equivalent in weight to the natural wet thyroid tissue.
And so if you think of a 30-gram gland, each gram contains about 15 grains.
So you can get 120 doses of more or less replacement dose from a single gland.
Do you think when people ate more of a natural, I guess on the farm and stuff, or chickens
that we used to get some kind of a thyroid in there, didn't we, with the chickens, chicken
necks?
Yeah, yeah.
I used to find even at the Safeway supermarket a pound of chicken necks, two or three of
them, they would have left the gland, thyroid gland under the skin, even though it was illegal
starting in the 1940s, the government required that it be removed and sold to the drug companies.
On the farm, they would almost never bother removing the gland.
So it goes in the soup or fried chicken.
A guy I knew who worked on a farm said on Fridays that was their fried chicken day.
And he always asked for the necks, would he eat four or five necks for lunch?
And he said he'd always noticed that on Friday afternoons he was constantly overheated
and sweating because he was eating like 15 grains of thyroid for lunch.
Isn't that interesting?
Wow.
Yeah, you would think if you had a live thyroid that you could, you'd feel that, wouldn't
you?
I mean, you'd eat a whole one or something like that.
Yeah, and they aren't as toxic as the government warned.
If that guy was on average, if half of the neck still had the gland in it, each one might
weigh one gram.
That would be 30 grains for lunch.
And a friend of mine had her thyroid powder in a plastic bag and her cat, she had about
30 grains of thyroid in the bag.
And her cat found it and tore the bag open and ate it all.
She said he was sitting there with a very fast heartbeat, smiling.
Hey guys.
You're a great show.
Patrick, could you please ask Dr. Peat, what does he think of yogurt?
If it's standard, tangy, somewhat sour yogurt, that amount of lactic acid in a big cup full
is enough to cause the liver reaction.
The liver turns it back to glucose, but it's energetically expensive to turn lactic acid
into glucose.
And someone who is slightly hypothyroid can notice the depressed energy or even a headache
brought on by as little as a cup of yogurt.
Do you know anything about Abendazole for parasites?
There's somebody that's taken the dose and just wants to know if you think it's relatively
safe.
If you're sure you have a dangerous parasite, yeah, it's better than the parasite.
But if you are not certain there's a parasite, its toxicity is enough.
It isn't something to take diagnostically.
Because he says he has bruxism, severely grounding of my teeth.
Is that one symptom of parasites?
That goes with sometimes anything irritating the intestine.
But often it's your green salad that you ate at lunch is a more common cause of intestinal
irritation during the night because that releases serotonin into the system.
And high serotonin is strongly associated with bruxism.
High serotonin.
So you might try something like cyproheptadine to see what effect that is at bedtime.
What's cyproheptadine?
What is that?
It's an antihistamine, antiserotonin, old-fashioned antihistamine with the antiserotonin function.
Is that a pharmaceutical med?
It's a prescription drug, I think.
A lot of doctors are willing to prescribe it.
So raw veggies can cause high serotonin?
Yeah, the cellulose in uncooked vegetables especially is indigestible.
And so that carries the food far down your intestine where bacteria can get at it.
And the bacteria live on cellulose-rich foods and produce toxins.
And the irritation of the chemicals from the food and the bacteria and their toxins cause
the intestine to pour out a flood of histamine and serotonin.
And it's known that bruxism is very closely connected with high serotonin.
Do you think one has the same challenges with like sunflower sprouts or radish sprouts?
If they're cooked or if you grind up alfalfa sprouts while they're raw, there's a surge
of cyanide release.
So you don't want to eat a mass of raw sprouts of alfalfa.
How about sunflower or radish sprouts?
I think those are safer except for the high antithyroid effect.
Oh, they kind of can tamper down the thyroid?
The radish sprouts in particular.
Oh, well that's right.
Well, Dr. Peat, we're out of time.
And if we didn't get your email, we'll just put it in our file here and we'll get you
next time around.
So no telling where this whole Corona thing will be.
Hmm.
What, 30 days from now, lots of talk about a second wave.
Do you have any theories on that?
I have the same issue of the word epidemic.
If they're putting down sepsis, heart disease, and cancer as coronavirus deaths, then you
have to look at the state of the language at the moment.
Yes, sir.
Yeah.
Proof's in the pudding.
God's in the details.
Dr. Peat, we appreciate so much your being here.
Thanks for your time and we'll see you next time around.
Okay?
Okay, thanks.
Thank you.
Dr. Ray Peat, Patrick Tampone and OneRadioNetwork.com.
We have a little link there that you can click on at the show page and you can get Dr. Ray
Peat's newsletter.
I think we'll give you the email.
You just email there and then you're ready to go.
Okay, so thanks for the shows.
Thanks for being here with Dr. Massey and Dr. Peat.
David Wolf, yep, cool guy, really good man.
He'll be here in the morning, 9 o'clock Central Time.
If you have a question for probably one of the foremost, I guess most popular and experienced
raw food vegan guys, but he stretched out his wings a bit and tried different kinds
of foods over the years, just like a lot of them.
So we'll talk to him about all kinds of things with David Wolf.
That'll be tomorrow, 9 o'clock Central Time.
Thanks for your ongoing support.
Remember that I love you all very much and I appreciate you being here.
If there's anything I can do for you, Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
Patrick@OneRadioNetwork.com.
We'll see you in the morning with David Wolf.
I love you and may the blessings be.
We are listener supported.
One Radio Network.
[music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]